doc/00.Introduction.md, before:

#00.INTRODUCTION#

Zedek Framework is a PHP web development Framework. It is built to be a very light framework and caters for development at very basic levels yet is very powerful.

Zedek Framework was first developed in 2011 and has progressed since then. In its first version (0.1 to 0.22) the basic idea was laid but had to be improved on in several areas.

In version 2.0 Zedek Framework the file structure changed. The features in version 2 included: a Model-View-Controller (MVC) structure; Object Oriented; Encourages agile development; an Object Relational Model (ORM) built in called ZORM; a templating engine accessed from a class called ZView; Templating engines allowing some logic in the html view file such as looping through an array; URL rewriting allowing for clean urls (without a prefix as previously seen in version 0-0.23). The framework also introduced 2 parts for enhanced security - the web component which is the minor part consisting of 3 files:

Router File - which routes all url calls to the non web component;
.htaccess - that routes url calls to the router file except calls for favicon.ico and a public folder and
favico.ico file. the importance of this file is in database calls - these tend to occur twice dur to htaccess routing if the favicon.ico file is absent - a minor apache gottcha.

The web component allowed for one or more public folders for uploads of all web accessible objects such as images, stylesheets, javascripts etc. The second part of the framework, the non web component handles all the core functionality of the framework.

Requirements for using the framework include PHP5.3+; Knowledge of PHP; and Knowledge of Object Oriented Programming (OOP) - this tool may also help improve on your OOP skills! Test Driven Development with Simpletest was also been included.

In version 3.0 new features were included:

1. Multisite capability
2. Moved the themes folder into the public folder for better theme management
3. Now supports sub folder installation
4. Improved performance on microsoft OS installations
5. A Model super class
6. Internals separating in built functions from the model folder
7. Removed support for PHPUnit
8. Improved on the documentation with a demos included
9. Renamed view folder in engines to "views" to be consistent with the plurality of views
10. Improved on the installation
11. Several bug fixes particularly within the ORM
12. Introduction of new ORM methods

Commit message:

version 3.14.26 updates to documentation and view class

doc/00.Introduction.md, after:

#00.INTRODUCTION#

Zedek Framework is a PHP web development Framework. It is built to be a very light framework and very powerful.

Zedek Framework was first developed in 2011 and has progressed since then. In its first version (0.1 to 3.0.0) the basic idea was laid but had to be improved on in several areas.

Zedek Framework is a Model-View-Controller (MVC) framework; Object Oriented; Encourages agile development; has included in it an Object Relational Model (ZORM); a templating engine accessed from a class called ZView; Templating engines allowing basic conditionals; URL rewriting allowing for clean urls. The framework is in 2 parts for enhanced security - the web component and the non web.

The web component allowed for one or more public folders for uploads of all web accessible objects particularly those required for theming such as images, stylesheets, javascripts etc. The second part of the framework, the non web component handles all the core functionality of the framework.

Requirements for using the framework include PHP5.4+ ; basic knowledge of PHP; and Knowledge of Object Oriented Programming (OOP) - this tool may also help improve on your OOP skills! Test Driven Development with Simpletest was also been included.

In version 3.0 new features were included:

1. Multisite capability
3. Sub folder installation
4. Microsoft OS installations
5. Internals which contains helper classeses
