#01. Setting Up#

Creating your first application follow these steps:

1. Download this repo so you have a folder named "zedek" or what ever else you want to call it in a non web accessible folder. This is one of the security features of Zedek3.0. 
2. in your web accessible folder u will require 3 files and a folder being a ".htaccess" file, a router file named as you desire such as "router.php", a "favicon.ico" file and a themes folder. 
3. The contents of the .htaccess file should redirect all traffic to the router file while excluding the themes folder contents:


##.htaccess contents##

    RewriteEngine On
    RewriteCond %{REQUEST_URI} !/themes/.*$ 
    RewriteCond %{REQUEST_URI} !/favicon\.ico$
    RewriteRule ^(.*)$ router.php

Ensure you have mod_rewrite enabled and properly configured. You may include other web accessible folders, just ensure they are reflected in the htaccess file such as
  RewriteCond %{REQUEST_URI} !/images/.*$
for an images folder etc. These should come before the RewriteRule.

router.php contents

  <?php
    require_once "/path/to/zedek/anchor.php";
  ?>   
and you are about done with the web parts.

on a windows machine it would appear more like:

  <?php
    require_once "drive:\\path\\to\\anchor.php";
  ?>


##intializer.php##

Within the initializer file (/zedek/initializer.php) set the zweb constant to the path leading to the web accessible folder ending with a trailing slash

    const zweb="/path/to/web/folder/";

Once done you should see your app on your website with a successful install message.

Sub folder installation

From version 2.3 Zedek Framework supports the installation in sub folders. To do so, within the initializer.php file set the zsub constant reflecting the sub folder:

    const zsub="/sub/folder/";

ensure this ends in a trailing slash.

Now that you have successfully installed Zedek its time to build your first application. But first lets explain how it works.

Zedek is built to map urls to controllers and methods in a style: http://mysite.com/controller/method/id/?arg1=val1&arg2=val2...argn=valn or where the installation is in a subfolder http://mysite.com/sub/folder/controller/method/id/?arg1=val1&arg2=val2...argn=valn (this mapping is handled primarily by a class named ZURI).

To create a new app called foo create a folder with the name foo within the engines folder.
within this create a file and name it "controller.php".
within the controller file enter the following code

    <?php
        namespace __zf__; 
        class CController extends ZController{
          function bar(){
            echo "Hello World";
          }
        }


4. Browse to http://mysite.com/foo/bar

and you should see your hello world message!

The creation of the model file has also been automated. To use this feature ensure that the /zedek/engines/ folder is writable. run the static method CController::create("foo") from your application. This will create the

/zedek/engines/foo folder
/zedek/engines/foo/controller.php and the
/zedek/engines/foo/views/ folder.

this script will create 2 classes in your model file, 1 for CController and the other as a simpletest (PHP Unit testing) class. Simple test is discusses later.