#Configuration#

The config files are located within the /zedek/config/ folder. The config files take the form of json. They are in fact JSON files.

General Config

The config file takes the form below

    {
        "version": "2.0"
    }
new config values may be added using the ZConfig object:

    $config = new ZConfig();
    $config->set("theme", "new_theme");
The ZConfig object has 2 methods: set and get. set takes 2 arguments - key and value pair while the get takes only one argument which is the key and returns the value.

    echo $config->get("theme");
will return "new_theme".

Other config values apart from "theme"

error - sets PHP display_error to "On" or "Off"
webUnitTest - sets simpletest web display to "On" or "Off"
you can create any custom settings you wish to following your defined set of rules
Database Config

This is a json file that should be edited directly. Unlike the general config it is not manipulated with the ZConfig object. The settings are:

    {
        "engine": "sqlite",
        "host": "null",
        "user": "null",
        "pass": "null",
        "db": "/zedek/databases/zedek.db"
    }
 #engine represents which Relational Database Management System in use and may be sqlite, mysql or any other option allowed by PDO.
host represents the host and does not have to be set for sqlite
user represents database username and does not have to be set for sqlite
pass represents password and does not have to be set for sqlite
db represents database name. In the case of sqlite it is the path to the sqlite database
    {
        "engine": "mysql",
        "host": "localhost",
        "user": "database_user",
        "pass": "database_password",
        "db": "database_name"
    }